Birmingham mum whose son was robbed at knifepoint refuses to let trauma end in silence
Laura Mace has been nominated for an Outstanding Citizen award by the West Midlands Police and Crime Commissioner

Naomi DeSouza Senior reporter at BirminghamLive
05:30, 05 Oct 2025

Laura Mace, whose teen son was robbed at knife point by balaclava-clad attackers on his way home from school in Birmingham has refused to let her familys trauma end in silence. She has since set up The Alive Wellness CIC Centre

A brave Birmingham mum set up a community centre after her son was robbed at knife-point in a bid to show his attackers they would not be silenced.

Laura Mace's teen boy was on his way home from school in Birmingham when he was jumped and robbed by balaclava-clad attackers.

In response, she founded a community centre in Birmingham to help those whose lives had been devastated by violence.

Now Laura has been shortlisted for the 'Outstanding Citizen Award' by the West Midlands Police and Crime Commissioner.

Discovering the lack of support available for young victims and their families, she founded The Alive Wellness CIC Centre as a community hub.

The city organisation offers counselling, personal training, and football sessions to help rebuild lives devastated by violence.

Laura works closely with schools, leading assemblies and classroom sessions to raise awareness of the dangers of knife crime.

Laura Mace, whose teen son was robbed at knife point by balaclava-clad attackers on his way home from school in Birmingham has refused to let her familys trauma end in silence. She has since set up The Alive Wellness CIC Centre

The determined mum also supports children and young adults under 25 through activities that provide a safe space, strengthen friendships, and most importantly, prevent retaliation or fear-driven decisions to carry weapons.

Her holistic approach recognises that knife crime harms not only individuals but entire families, which she supports by offering counselling and practical support.

Laura ensures victims are not left to face their trauma alone.

West Midlands Police and Crime Commissioner Simon Foster said: “Laura has shown extraordinary courage and commitment in the face of unimaginable personal pain.

"Her work through The Alive Wellness CIC is changing lives, breaking cycles of violence, and giving young people hope for a safer future. She is an inspiration to us all.”

Laura has been nominated among other outstanding citizens, including Nikita Kanda, whose tireless campaigning in memory of her brother Ronan led to the introduction of Ronan’s Law.
Ronan Kanda with his mum Pooja

Happy, popular and bright Ronan Kanda was brutally murdered as a masked thug plunged a Ninja sword through his heart. Innocent Ronan was just 16-years-old when he was killed in a harrowing case of mistaken identity that shocked the nation in 2022.

The Commissioner's office said: "Laura and Nikita represent two different, but equally powerful responses to the devastation of knife crime: one building healing and resilience at the grassroots level, the other driving national reform.

"Both women stand as testaments, to the impact and strength of individuals, determined to deliver change and protect future generations."

Laura and Nikita will be honoured at the West Midlands Police and Crime Commissioner's Outstanding Citizen Awards, taking place on Monday, October 6 at the Brasshouse Community Centre in Smethwick.
